Update Elastic Agent command reference with Fleet Server flags (#667)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/ingest-management/commands.asciidoc

[[elastic-agent-enroll-command]]
== elastic-agent enroll

Enroll the {agent} in {fleet}.

Use this command to enroll the {agent} in {fleet} without installing the

> agent as a service. You might want to do this if you installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
agent as a service. You will need to do this if you installed
```

the {agent} from a DEB or RPM package and plan to use systemd commands to
start and manage the service. This command is also useful for testing
{agent} prior to installing it.

> 

Author: +
If you've already installed {agent}, use this command to enroll the installed agent in a different policy. 
+

TIP: To enroll an {agent} _and_ install it as a service, use the

> <<elastic-agent-install-command,`install` command>> instead.

Author: ```suggestion
<<elastic-agent-install-command,`install` command>> instead. Installing as a service is the most common scenario.
```

> We recommend that you run the `enroll` command as the root user because some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend that you run the `enroll` (and 'install') command(s) as the root user because some
```

integrations require root privileges to collect sensitive data. This command
overwrites the `elastic-agent.yml` file in the agent directory.

This command includes optional flags to set up <<fleet-server,{fleet-server}>>.

IMPORTANT: This command enrolls the {agent} in {fleet}; it does not start the
agent. To start the agent, either <<start-elastic-agent,start the service>>, if
one exists, or use the <<elastic-agent-run-command,`run` command>> to start the
agent from a terminal.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common usage is to use the 'install' command described below, which entails management of the {agent} service.  The 'enroll' command can be used after installing the {agent} to modify the settings {agent} runs with.
```

Author: The first sentence seems a little redundant with what I've already said. I'll try to make that statement clearer and mention the point about using enroll after installation.

[discrete]
=== Synopsis

> //QUESTION: Which flags are relevant when running a Fleet

Reviewer: Is there a way to avoid having duplicated base content here?  The enroll and 'install' commands accept the exact same options.  Their inherent difference is that 'install' additionally manages the service account and runs the Agent for the user, and while this is not required, it is recommended to avoid user error and allow the Agent to be upgradeable via the Kibana UI when subsequent stack releases are deployed.

I do think we'll want to highlight different options for when Fleet Server is included, I'll make a pass below at arranging per your notes here.

Author: Yah, I see your point. We could use a pipe character (like in EBNF) to show alternation, but we don't do that anywhere else AFAIK (our syntax diagrams are very simple). Could be confusing to users. I'm personally a fan of those old syntax diagrams that show all the things (like optionality, defaults, etc), but it's probably good that modern command lines don't require them. :-) 

Maybe this is something to resolve in 7.14?

Reviewer: 7.14 is totally fine

Author: Closing because I've opened https://github.com/elastic/observability-docs/issues/704 to track this.

//Server agent vs a regular agent? Which flags are required? (We should list
//required flags first and they shouldn't be wrapped in square brackets). I'm
//making some guesses here, but I'm not sure about the Ca and certificate
//settings.

> //Also, should we include deprecated flags (like kibana-url) in the synopsis? I think

Reviewer: I agree on not, here.  But maybe, we could mention 'kibana-url' in the trouble-shooting doc as a potential 'gotcha' that someone may be using an older, deprecated command.

Reviewer: Also, we are putting the 'Fleet server' section first, wherever there is one... just because it is a firm requirement to have a FS before you can have 'other' subsequent Agents.  should we flip those 2 sections here?  Doing that in a separate follow on PR is fine, or skip it if you like it as is.

Reviewer 2: `--kibana-url` was removed in 7.13, so its not included.

Author: > Also, we are putting the 'Fleet server' section first, wherever there is one... just because it is a firm requirement to have a FS before you can have 'other' subsequent Agents. should we flip those 2 sections here? Doing that in a separate follow on PR is fine, or skip it if you like it as is.

Jason pointed out during a different review that setting up Fleet Server will be a lot less common than installing/enrolling agents, so I'm going to leave this section as-is.

//probably not.

To enroll the {agent} in {fleet}:

[source,shell]
----

> elastic-agent enroll [--ca-sha256 <string>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
elastic-agent enroll --url <string>
                     --enrollment-token <string>
                     [--ca-sha256 <string>]
```

                     [--certificate-authorities <string>]

>                      [--enrollment-token <string>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                     [--force]
                     [--help]
                     [--insecure ]

>                      [--url string]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                     [global-flags]
----

To enroll the {agent} in {fleet} and set up {fleet-server}:

[source,shell]
----

> elastic-agent enroll [--ca-sha256 <string>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
elastic-agent enroll --fleet-server-es <string>
                     --fleet-server-service-token <string>
                     [--ca-sha256 <string>]
```

                     [--certificate-authorities <string>]
                     [--fleet-server-cert <string>] <1>
                     [--fleet-server-cert-key <string>]

>                      [--fleet-server-es <string>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                     [--fleet-server-es-ca <string>]
                     [--fleet-server-host <string>]
                     [--fleet-server-insecure-http]
                     [--fleet-server-policy <string>]
                     [--fleet-server-port <uint16>]

>                      [--fleet-server-service-token <string>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                     [--force]
                     [--help]
                     [--insecure ]
                     [global-flags]
----
<1> If no `fleet-server-cert*` flags are specified, {agent} auto-generates a
self-signed certificate with the hostname of the machine.

> //QUESTION: Does this mean that the agent enrolling in this Fleet Server needs

Reviewer: If Fleet Server is employing the self-signed certs, then yes, any Agents that enroll to it will need the --insecure flag.  I have a task on my list to add this to the trouble-shooting docs, unless you want to call it out here?

And yes, using the self-signed certs temporarily is less secure, but all communication between Agents and a Fleet server will be encrypted regardless, and we should mention that.

Reviewer 2: Just for clarity on the question the `--insecure` flag is only required on a remote Elastic Agent enrolling into this Elastic Agent. The Elastic Agent that is being bootstrapped (aka. itself) does not need `--insecure`. The bootstrapping Elastic Agent is using a 100% verified certificate chain, as it has its own CA that is used to verify the certificate.

[[elastic-agent-enroll-command]]
== elastic-agent enroll

Enroll the {agent} in {fleet}.

Use this command to enroll the {agent} in {fleet} without installing the
agent as a service. You will need to do this if you installed
the {agent} from a DEB or RPM package and plan to use systemd commands to
start and manage the service. This command is also useful for testing
{agent} prior to installing it.

> If you've already installed {agent}, use this command to enroll the agent in a different policy. 

Author: @EricDavisX I think this captures the essence of what you indicated below, but might be inaccurate (didn't test). Can I just run the enroll command again, or do I need to first unenroll the agent in Fleet?
```suggestion
If you've already installed {agent}, use this command to modify the settings that {agent} runs with. 
```

> If you've already installed {agent}, use this command to modify the settings that {agent} runs with. 

Author: @EricDavisX Edited my previous fix. I think I misunderstood your statement, which suggests that my change here might still be too vague. WDYT?

Reviewer: That's actually perfect, its the exact purpose / use for 'enroll'. :)  no need to unenroll first - you just overwrite / change it and keep going.

`--certificate-authorities <string>`::
Comma-separated list of root certificates used for server verification.

`--enrollment-token <string>`::
Enrollment token to use to enroll {agent} into {fleet}. You can use
the same enrollment token for multiple agents.

`--fleet-server-cert <string>`::
Certificate to use for exposed {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint.

`--fleet-server-cert-key <string>`::
Private key to use for exposed {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint.

`--fleet-server-es <string>`::
Start a {fleet-server} process when {agent} is started, and connect to the
specified {es} URL. You can optionally pass a username and password in the
URL, but it's recommended that you use a service token instead (see the
`--fleet-server-service-token` flag).

//QUESTION: Is this correct? ^^ The description in --help needs work (I've
//opened an issue to get it fixed).

> //TODO: Test this option with the enroll command to verify it works.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

`--certificate-authorities <string>`::
Comma-separated list of root certificates used for server verification.

`--enrollment-token <string>`::
Enrollment token to use to enroll {agent} into {fleet}. You can use
the same enrollment token for multiple agents.

`--fleet-server-cert <string>`::
Certificate to use for exposed {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint.

`--fleet-server-cert-key <string>`::
Private key to use for exposed {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint.

`--fleet-server-es <string>`::
Start a {fleet-server} process when {agent} is started, and connect to the

> specified {es} URL. You can optionally pass a username and password in the

Reviewer: The fleet-server-es parameter is required, as noted in prior comment - it is passed along to any Agents that enroll with the given Fleet Server and it is the part of their policy setup which allows them connectivity to send data to ES.

Also, I would avoid citing anything about the prior ability to pass the es-username and es-password as this is being removed from the code for 7.14 if it isn't already.

URL, but it's recommended that you use a service token instead (see the
`--fleet-server-service-token` flag).

//QUESTION: Is this correct? ^^ The description in --help needs work (I've
//opened an issue to get it fixed).

`--fleet-server-es-ca <string>`::
Path to certificate authority to use to communicate with {es}.

`--fleet-server-host <string>`::
{fleet-server} HTTP binding host (overrides the policy).

`--fleet-server-insecure-http`::
Expose {fleet-server} over HTTP. This option is not recommended because it's
insecure. It's useful during development and testing, but should not be used in
production. When using this option, you should bind {fleet-server} to the
local host (this is the default).

`--fleet-server-policy <string>`::

> Start a {fleet-server} process when {agent} is started, and use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally used when starting a {fleet-server}, to allow for options configured in the
```

Reviewer 2: @EricDavisX version is better, because setting this will not start the Fleet Server. Only the `--fleet-server-es` will start the Fleet Server.

Author: I'm going to implement a variation on this input, so marking this feedback as resolved.

specified policy.

> //QUESTION: Is this correct? The description in --help says, "Start and run a

Reviewer: You can override the implied default that Fleet server would be set up with the 'Default Fleet Server Policy' by passing this in.  It is primarily for self-managed usage, when working with multiple variations of policy configuration for different Fleet Servers (or just to have the Fleet Servers individually modifiable if desired)

`--certificate-authorities <string>`::
Comma-separated list of root certificates used for server verification.

`--enrollment-token <string>`::
Enrollment token to use to enroll {agent} into {fleet}. You can use
the same enrollment token for multiple agents.

`--fleet-server-cert <string>`::
Certificate to use for exposed {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint.

`--fleet-server-cert-key <string>`::
Private key to use for exposed {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint.

`--fleet-server-es <string>`::
Start a {fleet-server} process when {agent} is started, and connect to the
specified {es} URL. 

//QUESTION: Is this correct? ^^ The description in --help needs work (I've

> //opened an issue to get it fixed).

Reviewer 2: Yes that is correct.

`--certificate-authorities <string>`::
Comma-separated list of root certificates used for server verification.

`--enrollment-token <string>`::
Enrollment token to use to enroll {agent} into {fleet}. You can use
the same enrollment token for multiple agents.

`--fleet-server-cert <string>`::
Certificate to use for exposed {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint.

`--fleet-server-cert-key <string>`::
Private key to use for exposed {fleet-server} HTTPS endpoint.

`--fleet-server-es <string>`::
Start a {fleet-server} process when {agent} is started, and connect to the

> specified {es} URL. You can optionally pass a username and password in the
> URL, but it's recommended that you use a service token instead (see the
> `--fleet-server-service-token` flag).

Author: ```suggestion
specified {es} URL. 
```

local host (this is the default).

`--fleet-server-policy <string>`::

> Used when starting a {fleet-server} process to allow for options configured the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Used when starting a self-managed {fleet-server} to allow a specific policy to be used,
```

> specified policy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead of the Default Fleet Server policy.
```

Show help for the `enroll` command.

`--insecure`::
Allow insecure connections to {fleet-server}. When this flag is specified, API
keys are sent in clear text. We strongly recommend that you use a secure
connection.

//QUESTION: Is this true? Are the keys really sent in clear text, or does this

> //have to do with accepting auto-generated certificates?

Reviewer 2: When communicating with a HTTP server `--insecure` is required and "yes" the content is sent in clear text. Then connecting to HTTPS server with `--insecure` because the certificate chain cannot be verified, that means the content is encrypted (not clear-text) but the certificate cannot be verified.

`--kibana-url <string>`::

> deprecated:[7.13.0] This deprecated setting has been replaced by `--url`.

Reviewer 2: This should be removed, it was removed in 7.13.

//QUESTION: In the past, we've left out --staging to avoid confusion. Should I

> //add it here?

Reviewer 2: Best to keep it removed.

`--url <string>`::
Fleet Server URL to use to enroll the {agent} into {fleet}.

// end::enroll-install-options[]

{global-flags-link}

[discrete]
=== Examples

Enroll the {agent} in {fleet}:

[source,shell]
----
elastic-agent enroll -f \
  --url=https://cedd4e0e21e240b4s2bbbebdf1d6d52f.fleet.eu-west-1.aws.cld.elstc.co:443 \
  --enrollment-token=NEFmVllaa0JLRXhKebVKVTR5TTI6N2JaVlJpSGpScmV0ZUVnZVlRUExFQQ==
----

Enroll the {agent} in {fleet} and set up {fleet-server}:

[source,shell]
----
elastic-agent enroll -f --fleet-server-es=http://myhost:9200 \
  --fleet-server-service-token=AbEAAdesYXN1abMvZmxlZXQtc2VldmVyL3Rva2VuLTE2MTkxMzg3MzIzMTg7dzEta0JDTmZUcGlDTjlwRmNVTjNVQQ
----

//TODO: Add examples that show how to use custom certificates.

> 

Reviewer 2: I can give some examples, this all assumes that they generated the certificates with the following names:

```
ca.crt - Root CA Certificate
fleet-server.crt - Fleet Server Certificate
fleet-server.key - Fleet Server Private Key
```

Start Elastic Agent with Fleet Server (running on a custom CA):

`elastic-agent enroll -f --fleet-server-es=https://elasticsearch:9200 --fleet-server-es-ca=ca.crt --fleet-server-service-token=AbEAAdesYXN1abMvZmxlZXQtc2VldmVyL3Rva2VuLTE2MTkxMzg3MzIzMTg7dzEta0JDTmZUcGlDTjlwRmNVTjNVQQ --fleet-server-cert fleet-server.crt --fleet-server-cert-key fleet-server.key
`

Enroll another Elastic Agent into that bootstrapped Elastic Agent with Fleet Server:

`elastic-agent enroll -f --url https://other-host:8220 --enrollment-token NEFmVllaa0JLRXhKebVKVTR5TTI6N2JaVlJpSGpScmV0ZUVnZVlRUExFQQ== --certificate-authorities root.ca`

  --enrollment-token=NEFmVllaa0JLRXhKebVKVTR5TTI6N2JaVlJpSGpScmV0ZUVnZVlRUExFQQ==
----

Enroll the {agent} in {fleet} and start {fleet-server}:

[source,shell]
----
elastic-agent enroll -f --fleet-server-es=http://elasticsearch:9200 \
  --fleet-server-service-token=AbEAAdesYXN1abMvZmxlZXQtc2VldmVyL3Rva2VuLTE2MTkxMzg3MzIzMTg7dzEta0JDTmZUcGlDTjlwRmNVTjNVQQ
----

Start {agent} with {fleet-server} (running on a custom CA). This example
assumes you've generated the certificates with the following names:

* `ca.crt`: Root CA certificate
* `fleet-server.crt`: {fleet-server} certificate
* `fleet-server.key`: {fleet-server} private key

[source,shell]
----
elastic-agent enroll -f --fleet-server-es=https://elasticsearch:9200 \
  --fleet-server-es-ca=ca.crt --fleet-server-service-token=AbEAAdesYXN1abMvZmxlZXQtc2VldmVyL3Rva2VuLTE2MTkxMzg3MzIzMTg7dzEta0JDTmZUcGlDTjlwRmNVTjNVQQ \
  --fleet-server-cert fleet-server.crt --fleet-server-cert-key fleet-server.key
----

Then enroll another {agent} into the {fleet-server} started in the previous
example:

[source,shell]
----

> elastic-agent enroll -f --url https://other-host:8220 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
elastic-agent enroll -f --url https://fleet-server-host:8220 \
```

[discrete]
=== Synopsis

//QUESTION: Same question as before: Which of these settings are still relevant
//when running Elastic Agent vs Elastic Agent + Fleet. Which options are

> //required?

Reviewer 2: They are exactly the same as the `enroll` command.

                     [--fleet-server-es <string>]
                     [--fleet-server-es-ca <string>]
                     [--fleet-server-host <string>]
                     [--fleet-server-insecure-http]
                     [--fleet-server-policy <string>]
                     [--fleet-server-port <uint16>]
                     [--fleet-server-service-token <string>]
                     [--force]
                     [--help]
                     [--insecure ]
                     [global-flags]
----

[discrete]
=== Options

include::commands.asciidoc[tag=enroll-install-options]

{global-flags-link}

[discrete]
=== Examples

Install the {agent} as a service, enroll it in {fleet}, and start the
`elastic-agent` service:

[source,shell]
----
elastic-agent install -f \
  --url=https://cedd4e0e21e240b4s2bbbebdf1d6d52f.fleet.eu-west-1.aws.cld.elstc.co:443 \
  --enrollment-token=NEFmVllaa0JLRXhKebVKVTR5TTI6N2JaVlJpSGpScmV0ZUVnZVlRUExFQQ==
----
  
Install the {agent} as a service, enroll it in {fleet}, and start
a `fleet-server` process alongside the `elastic-agent` service:

[source,shell]
----
elastic-agent install -f --fleet-server-es=http://myhost:9200 \

>   --fleet-server-service-token=AbEAAdesYXN1abMvZmxlZXQtc2VldmVyL3Rva2VuLTE2MTkxMzg3MzIzMTg7dzEta0JDTmZUcGlDTjlwRmNVTjNVQQ

Reviewer 2: Same example of certificates I gave above, can also be provided here.

[source,shell]
----
elastic-agent install -f --fleet-server-es=http://elasticsearch:9200 \
  --fleet-server-service-token=AbEAAdesYXN1abMvZmxlZXQtc2VldmVyL3Rva2VuLTE2MTkxMzg3MzIzMTg7dzEta0JDTmZUcGlDTjlwRmNVTjNVQQ
----

Start {agent} with {fleet-server} (running on a custom CA). This example
assumes you've generated the certificates with the following names:

* `ca.crt`: Root CA certificate
* `fleet-server.crt`: {fleet-server} certificate
* `fleet-server.key`: {fleet-server} private key

[source,shell]
----
elastic-agent install -f --fleet-server-es=https://elasticsearch:9200 \
  --fleet-server-es-ca=ca.crt --fleet-server-service-token=AbEAAdesYXN1abMvZmxlZXQtc2VldmVyL3Rva2VuLTE2MTkxMzg3MzIzMTg7dzEta0JDTmZUcGlDTjlwRmNVTjNVQQ \
  --fleet-server-cert fleet-server.crt --fleet-server-cert-key fleet-server.key
----

Then install another {agent} and enroll it into the {fleet-server} started in
the previous example:

[source,shell]
----

> elastic-agent install -f --url https://other-host:8220 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
elastic-agent install -f --url https://fleet-server-host:8220 \
```

++++
<hr>
++++

[discrete]
[[elastic-agent-watch-command]]
== elastic-agent watch

Watch the {agent} for failures and initiate rollback.

> //QUESTION: When is this command used? During testing? 

Reviewer: @michalpristas can confirm, but this is used by Agent itself during Agent upgrades, and *possibly also during initial install, but maybe not.

Reviewer: I don't know if it has much value to users... if it does, I'd love to learn it and how to use it manually.  I believe that it starts up another process (a 'watcher' elastic agent process) which should go away when the upgrade successfully finishes and some 10-15 minute window is passed, or if the upgrade is confirmed to have failed.  It may be worthwhile to put into the docs somewhere (maybe not here) to expect this process to exist during Agent upgrades, for this purpose.

Author: I'm going to comment this out for now until we decide if it's worth exposing to end users.
